now I've been looking at the works of a
guy by the name of a bass may CL I -
yang I'm sure a lot of people familiar
with his works he's been blowing up
along with YouTube's lately I subscribe
to this dude man I'm tough to pronounce
but I'm gonna try
so a Bosley seal is wrong you can't
dismiss it cuz that's still substantial
Bosley seal he's wrong once I watched
the entire video and I heard this guy
Goggins I could see where I was coming
from he made some really salient points
and that's what I like about this guy
forces you to think about your default
position forces you to examine partly
pal paradigms and I mean one of the
things I love about his name abet a
vassal seal is the whole ideology behind
that name is apparently if it means
tearing down the skies this
take-no-prisoners mentality where you
simply just tear everything down you
don't care about aligning yourself with
any ideology you're here to shake things
up and that's what I like to do that's
what I try to do on my podcast
hey um the reality is that vegans are
deeply divided in the year 2016
about what the status of pet ownership
is supposed to be on the moral status of
the investigation of animals
I'm gonna read two comments anonymously
from people on Facebook you will see in
a moment here these are such typical
comments if you know but what's going on
in veganism and animal rights that if
you don't believe they're from real
people well it doesn't really change
anything if I hate these up there to
sort of representative comments that
just show that these debates are really
ongoing right now I'm then again I
comment for a moment about what I think
of as sort of the historical perspective
for these issues and then I'm gonna tell
you what I think so first and foremost I
was a bit stunned to seeing a question
that was posed about the morality of
owning cats dogs and other house pets
and the morality of feeding meat to them
the following comment comes from a vegan
so this is a member of a vegan group he
identifies as vegan at the end of this
comment you may think he's speaking but
he defines himself as vegan and that
that is significant that does count
he self-identified it's vegan he
comments why not own animals question
mark I've never felt that dilemma as a
vegan that having animals is wrong I've
adopted for cats I used to work at an
SPCA do my cats eat meat question mark
of course they do
do I feel wrong about purchasing their
bag of cat food no I would never deny
them what they need I live my life as a
vegan and make ethical and healthy
choices for myself but also have to make
the right choices for my animals
I think companion animals are amazing to
have whatever the kind is I wish I could
tell you I felt any sympathy whatsoever
for this guy's point of view on the show
I wish I could tell you this was in any
way a mixed bag for me there was any
ambiguity here you identify as vegan but
point one you think there is nothing
wrong about owning an animal as property
point number two you think there is
nothing wrong with buying a metal
container with the chopped up pieces of
the corpse of a cow inside so you can
feed it to your pet cat you you think
there is nothing wrong with paying
another human being to kill a cow cut up
its pieces
put it in a bag or metal can so you buy
it you pay them for that service to feed
it to your cat apparently so you can
live out the fictional fantasy that in
nature a house cat would be killing and
devouring cattle you know can you even
imagine in nature a cat you know a
domesticated house cat eating sheep you
know get real you know a pack of wolves
can kill and eat his sheep anyway but
what happens in the wild is irrelevant
because we're talking about domesticated
animals now I notice this guy I just
clicked on his about me information he
actually is an employee of a veterinary
clinic so now his views within veganism
animal rights today I wish I could say
they were wildly eccentric probably his
views are more common than mine are
probably he's just much more open than
most people are that comment was made
within the last 24 hours by the way it's
a current example probably a lot of
vegans live with the kind of cognitive
dissonance he's describing right there
Hey look it's not even cognitive
dissonance for him it's just in my
opinion he's he's wrong to me that's
unbelievable but it shouldn't be it
should be completely believable to me as
I said years ago the reality of veganism
is that it is internally fractious and
fragmentary and these are not minor
trivial differences these reflects real
debates real issues real misgivings
about what the future of veganism should
be what the future of animal rights
should be ecology or the future of our
society should be and also with the
basic ethical premises of veganism so
the second comment I wanted to read I
believe the sills are from a man there
was a young woman asked a question about
being vegan and riding horses again this
is from within the last 24 hours
and she stated that she's vegan but she
thinks it's okay to ride horses under
some circumstances and this fellow
responds with
wTF is wrong with some people you cannot
exploit one species and still call
yourselves vegan horse riding is 100%
not vegan
ffs there is an absolute ton of science
out there proving that nearly all horses
riddance ever suffer from spine injuries
practically all of them stop hurting
horses full stop so here I mean it's
interesting what this you know brings to
mind for me is instead the sort of
historical long view of how different
our position is in asking these
questions now then it would have been
100 years ago 200 years ago five and
years ago a thousand years ago 1000
years ago no matter how morally you
might be opposed to domestication of
horses
the existence of your society the
ability of your society to defend itself
against invaders would have absolutely
relied on domesticated animals like
horses sometimes like elephants to the
use of animals in war and if you didn't
make the compromise to domesticate these
animals you would quite likely be
invaded and conquered and wiped from the
face of the earth in the year 2016
none of that is true anymore and what
I've just mentioned is really just
information that belongs in a museum
but for that same reason I also look at
horse riding or any of these things as
wondering well look in the future like
in the next 50 years what is the
significance of horse riding going to be
it's just not possible that horses are
gonna replace the motorcycle it's not
possible the horses are going to replace
cars or trains or even bicycles at this
point so outside of a few places that
resemble museums you know historical
recreations or what have you
what would the role for domesticated
horses in society be so although I agree
in principle and obviously you know
riding horses is not vegan
beyond that I also have to ask well you
know what is the 22nd century
going to look like nobody thinks the
22nd century is gonna have horses you
know pulling carts down major roads or
people relying them on transport or for
war or for anything else so the whole
framing of the questions are different
and by contrast the vast majority of
human beings on earth absolutely do
assume that in the 22nd century
people are going to keep cats as pets
and they're gonna buy little metal cans
that contain cows that have been chopped
up and killed and put into that can to
to provide meat for that that pet can so
the debates are very much unsettled and
very much ongoing and dicey and real and
the people involved do not have a
settlor unified notion about what being
vegan means but what the ethics of
veganism mean and so on when I think
about the role of domestication of
animals in our society today in the
future and in the ethics of veganism
ecology and animal rights I think the
most important referent the most
important point of reference to keep in
mind is the wild is the wilderness
itself the question of how well a horse
is treated on a farm is irrelevant the
question of how happy or seemingly happy
your pet cat is is irrelevant the
question of how much you love your pet
cat is irrelevant and I think what I've
just said really is deeply unpopular and
deeply unsettling even to people who
consider themselves committed vegans and
who may live with some of the strange
and incongruous compromises I've just
mentioned whether that's riding horses
or buying meat to feed their cat or
heating other vegans who ride horses and
by me to feed their Kaz that's a kind of
contradiction also in your life if
you're vegan and you're part of a social
movement with people who differ with you
on those fundamentals back when I was a
child there was a famous singer called
Michael Jackson and among the things
that made him famous was that he owned a
pet monkey I think it was a chimpanzee I
could be wrong wrong about these species
and every so often a journalist would
ask him what happened to the chimpanzee
because he had it for awhile and
disappeared it was a question of did he
own one and then replace it with another
or what have you and there would be
these sort of awkward and strange
answers and I can remember him saying
incoherently you know it's okay to keep
them as pets when they're babies but
then they grow up and they start to
behave in a more independent way and
they can't really be happy living in
your house okay I think it's very easy
because of how close chimpanzees are to
us in appearance or any other primate
monkeys great apes what have you it's
very easy for people to admit that it's
chimpanzee can never be happy unless it
is either in the wilderness or in a
simulated environment that attempts to
reproduce the wilderness in other words
if it has to be in a zoo then you want
that zoo to simulate the conditions of
the wild as closely as possible and now
that doesn't mean that life in the
wilderness is happy in the same way that
a cat lying on your couch may be happy
that having a dog that lives its whole
life on the carpet and watching
television with you you may consider
that dog to be happy but that is in no
way what its natural life would be like
should be like and is that natural life
with both the joys and the miseries of
living in the wild
we have to treat morally as the baseline
for how animals should live and how we
should relate animals
I think it's deeply problematic that in
vegans are using the image of pet pigs
as an icon to challenge the cruelty of
the farming industry of the fact that
people eat pigs and bacon
I understand it's an effective
propaganda tool but like all propaganda
it's a mix of truth and lies isn't it
pig may look cute and cuddly when you
present it this way you want to argue
that pigs can be a host pet in the same
way that a dog can be or a cat can be
but that is not what pigs are like in
the wild that's not what it's like for
the pig to live in the wilderness
roaming free finding its own meals or
finding its own starvation going to
sleep hungry waking up independently
making its own life for itself and its
pack you know that is a life you can
take away from a pig but that's not a
life you can ever give it okay you can
give a pig a couch to sleep on you can
give up a human home and that pig can be
reduced to decorating your carpet and
living with you as a pet but that in
itself actually is immoral in many ways
you're denying that Pig the opportunity
to be a pig and you're making it into a
pathetic echo of a human being
a pathetic shadow of human civilization
a decoration and a plaything for human
needs human boredom human desires
and I think many of these people who
glorified pigs as pets have never seen a
wild boar I had never seen even feral
pigs that have recaptured some of their
wild characteristics and I think those
same people would find it very
disturbing if they went to a friend's
house and there was a chimpanzee or a
group of chimpanzees showing their
natural social behaviors which are
terrifying you know in the wild
chimpanzees monkeys and great apes
generally they're competitive they
compete with one another they fight they
scream at each other they compete for
social status of course they also go out
and get food they have all these complex
social behaviors dogs in the wild you
know have all the politics of the wolf
pack of how how the dogs are organized
and again fight for superiority many
people are shocked when it comes up that
we do actually live in a dog-eat-dog
world that dogs in the wild big dogs do
eat little talks
dogs are cannibalistic as a species um
many vegans are proud to raise their
house pets vegan okay well you want to
take an animal that in the wild not only
hunts and kills but will hunt and kill
its own species happily enough and turn
it into this plaything in many ways
there's a series of immoral decisions
that have already been made before we
even get to the point of questioning the
social role of this thing that sleeps on
the rug and in some ways is treated as
if it were just a living rug